Rondy
The Rondy (Fur Rendezvous Festival) is an annual winter festival held in Anchorage, Alaska in late February. The self-styled "largest winter festival in North America", Fur Rendezvous is highly anticipated by many Anchorage-area residents as marking the beginning of the end of a long winter and the approach of spring. In 2012, Fur Rendezvous was selected as "the number one winter carnival in the world" (via: https://web.archive.org/web/20120421232245/http://travel.nationalgeographic.com/travel/winter-trips/winter-carnivals/) by the National Geographic Traveler.
History
In 1935, Anchorage had a population of only about 3,000 and was very isolated, so to bring the community together and lift spirits, resident Vern Johnson organized a three-day sports tournament, called the Winter Sports Carnival, timed to coincide with the rendezvous, which brought increased activity. As the fur trade was then the second-largest industry in Alaska, folding it into the event seemed natural, and it was renamed the Winter Sports Tournament and Fur Rendezvous from 1937, and later just Fur Rendezvous.
It was common for miners and trappers to have beards in the early days, so a "law" was even made that all men had to grow beards for this event or suffer a fine! This was considered to be part of the fun, because most men participated in it.
Fur Rendezvous was canceled during the war years, but resumed in 1946, when the festival began to draw visitors from Outside, and has been held every year since. Since 1955 the event has been run by the non-profit GA Inc. (Greater Anchorage, Inc.)
Traditionally Fur Rendezvous lasted ten days, but since 2004 it has extended through early March, in order to lead into the IT (Iditarod Trail) Sled Dog Race and draw more visitors.
2021 will see a modified festival, but the Open World Championship Sled Dog Race will be on hiatus until 2022.
Events
The original Winter Sports Carnival included skiing, hockey, basketball, boxing, and a sled dog race for children, as well as a bonfire and torchlight parade. Modern Rondy has well over 100 events; some of the more significant include:
Rondy Grand Prix (The Oldest Street Race in the U.S.)
Official Fur Rondy Fur Auction
Miners' and Trappers' Charity Ball and Mr. Fur Face beard contest
World Championship Sled Dog Race (three-day, 75-mile sled dog race)
World Championship Dog Weight Pull (sled dogs attempt to pull the greatest weight)
Miss Fur Rondy (Miss Fur Rendezvous pageant)
Snow Sculpture Competition
Fur Rondy Carnival
Frostbite Footrace
Rondy Grand Parade
Running of the Reindeer
Rondy on Ice
World Ice Bowling Championships